# FBLA-Game
## Introduction
My name is Miles Boswell, and this is my submission for the FBLA Computer Game and Simulation challenge. It is a game designed to test player's knowledge on topics ranging from business concepts, marketing, entrepreneurship, and computer security. The game is divided into 4 Quarters, similar to a business year. For each quarter, the player can move around the screen and run into co-workers/employees. When the player interacts with an employee, a question is presented to the player. Every question is answered by clicking an on-screen button with the mouse; buttons are determined by the type of question. For example, a multiple choice question may have four buttons: "A", "B", "C", and "D", and a true or false question will have two buttons: "True" and "False". The player's answer to a questions directly impacts their balance, which is measured in dollar amounts and is displayed in the upper left-hand corner of the screen.

During gameplay, the player can navigate around the screen using the arrow keys. The objective of the game is to make as much money as possible at the end of all 4 quarters, and is acheived by either collecting coins or answering questions correctly. The first time a user launches the game, they will be presented with a title page as well as instructional guidance. This should explaing the mechanics and objective of the game sufficiently for any new player.
### Game Overview
The length of a quarter is determined by time. A timer in the upper right-hand corner of the screen shows how much time is remaining in the quarter during gameplay and when a question is presented. While the player is walking around the business floor, the timer counts down. However, the timer stops when the player is answering a question. Because this game is designed to be an educational tool for aspiriing business leaders, the player should have the opportunity to put some thought into their answers.

At the end of each quarter, a "Quarterly Report" graph is shown on the screen. The x-axis is labeled for each quarter of the game (Q1 is the first quarter, Q2 is the second quarter...), and the y-axis is labeled in dollar amounts. A line graph is constructed by individual points for each quarter that has been played. A point on the Quarterly Report graph represents the player's final score at the end of that quarter. This visual gives the player immediate feedback that will help them improve their "business's earnings" in future quarters in a format that is common in the world of business.

Occasionally, a coin will appear somewhere on the screen. When the player collides with a coin, it increases their balance score by $10. Coins are individually worth less than a correct answer to a question, but are guaranteed to increase balance score and are more likely to appear than co-workers are. The movement of the coins changes for each quarter: in the first quarter, coins do not move at all and are easy to collect; in the second and third quarters, coins either fall from the top of the screen or rise from the bottom; in the fourth and final quarter, coins bounce around the walls of the office space and are more difficult to collect.

The office space, or screen, of the game also changes in accordance with the quarters. In the first quarter, the office only has two cubicle spaces for workers. In this quarter, a maximum of two workers will appear on the screen at any given time. As the quarter number increases, so does the number of cubicle spaces for workers to spawn, allowing the player to answer more questions and earn more money. In the final quarter, a water cooler appears. Workers sometimes spawn by the water cooler, but will still offer questions even though they are "on break".

## Installation
In order to play the game, this repository's code must be installed first. To do so, follow the instructions below very carefully.
1. **Prerequisite**: Make sure Python is installed. Any version above python 3.6.0 will work fine, an earlier version is not recommended. If you are confident that your machine has an acceptable version installed, continue to the next step. If you are not sure if your machine has an acceptable version of python installed, go to the [python website](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/) and select a release suitable for your machine. As of March 2019, version 3.7.2 is the most recent release. To download Python 3.7.2 for a Windows machine, [click here](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.7.2/python-3.7.2-amd64.exe).
	- When the file has finished downloading, click it to open up the installer. Make sure you click the checkbox that says something along the lines of "Add python to environment path". Follow the instructions and, for the most part, keep clicking "Next" or "OK".
	- When the installer says Python has successfully been installed, congratulations!
1. **Download the Repository Code**: Once python has successfully been installed, click the green button near the top of this page that says "Clone or Download". A dropdown will appear, and when it does, click the blue text button that says "Download Zip".
	- When the zip folder has finished downloading, click it to open the folder in a file explorer.
	- In the file explorer, click the button that says "Extract All" to extract the files in the zip folder.
	- Next, a new pop-up window will appear that asks for the location of the folder to be extracted to. If the path is not already `C:\Users\%USERNAME%\Downloads\FBLA-Game-master` where `%USERNAME%` is the username of the user you are currently logged in as, change it to this exact path. This location of this folder is extremely important, and the launch of the game will not be successful if the folder is in a different location on your computer.
	- Click the "Extract" button near the bottom of the pop-up window. A new file explorer window will appear with a singular folder that says "FBLA-Game-master". Double click on this folder to navigate inside of it.
	- The contents of this folder should look familiar: they are the same files located in this repository. One of these should stand out; the file labeled "LAUNCH".
1. **Run the Game**: The last step after installing the source code is to run the game file on your computer.
	- Double click the "LAUNCH.bat" file. If a pop-up window appears saying "The publisher could not be verified. Are you sure you want to run this software?", click the "Run" button. I give my word that there is no malicious code in any of the source files, or in the "LAUNCH.bat" file. In fact, the purpose of the "LAUNCH.bat" file is to make sure that a necessary dependency is installed and to run the "game.py" file. If you like me and prefer to work in the Terminal, feel free to run `python game.py` in this repository folder, after installing the arcade module with `pip install arcade`.
	- If the above instructions were followed carefully and correctly, a terminal window will appear, followed shortly by the game window.

*Note*: The black terminal window does need to remain open while playing the game, if it is closed, the game will close too.

**If a problem occurs**: Chances are, a path is incorrect. If you skipped the Python 3.7.2 installation and continued with Downloading the Repository Code, install Python 3.7.2 using the link provided in Step 1 above.
